{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9340\viewh9380\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Arizona Notes \
Kyle Dropp\
\
\
Step by step summary:\
\
1. Download the block level file from Professor Michael McDonald's Public Mapping Project Web site (http://www.publicmapping.org/resources/data). \
\
2. Aggregate block level data to the voting district level. There are now 2,224 observations. \
\
3. Merge this file with the Census voting district file. The Census voting district file contains hundreds of incorrectly named precincts. All 2,224 voting districts were matched with a precinct vote total. We conducted the following data quality checks.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
I placed the Name10 Census VTD variable next to the PrecName provided by Maricopa County officials. The first column, Name10, contains a significant number of incorrect precinct names in urban areas in Maricopa County (Chandler, Gilbert, Glendale, Mesa, Peoria and Tempe). \
\
The Name10 and PrecName variables differed in Maricopa County in the following instances: \
-Chandler (35 cases) \
-Gilbert (16 cases)\
-Glendale (34 cases)\
-Eugie (one case)\
-Litchfield 2 (one case)\
-Mesa (116 cases)\
-Pebble Creek (one case)\
-Peoria (nine cases)\
-Rio Vista (one case)\
-Sun Lakes (precincts four through seven)\
-Tempe (precincts 13 through 64)\
\
In Chandler, Gilbert, Glendale, and Peoria, the PrecName variable refers to a polling place while the Name10 variable refers to the Precinct number. In the other areas, such as Mesa and Tempe, the wrong precinct numbers were transmitted to the Census. All problem cases were resolved.\
\
Mapping Software:\
I used this interactive map to locate voting districts in Maricopa County (http://recorder.maricopa.gov/reviewer/default.aspx) and verify that the PrecName variable corresponded with the correct voting district. \
\
Votes/VAP ratio - Raw voting data was downloaded from the Maricopa County Recorder (http://recorder.maricopa.gov/electionresults/media.aspx). These raw counts were compared with VAP and total population in Maricopa precincts. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
4. Calculate Democratic percent and Normal Vote columns for the merged document.\
\
5. Upload the merged file to GeoDa.\
\
\
\
Variable Names: \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 -az_geo_id - row identifier from raw Census VTD file\
-STATEFP10 - state code from census\
-County - county code from census\
-VTD - voting district code from census\
-GEOID10 - geo identifier from census\
-PrecName - Precinct Name, taken from Public Mapping Project. \
-ALAND10 - land\
-AWATER10 - water\
-INTPLAT10 - latitude\
-INTPTLON10 - longitude\
-VAP - Voting Age Population from Census FTP\
-Pop100 - full population from Census FTP\
-PRS08_REP - 2008 Presidential votes, Republican\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 -PRS08_DEM - 2008 Presidential votes, Democratic\
-PRS08_OTH - 2008 Presidential votes, Other       \
-GOV10_DEM - 2010 Gubernatorial votes, Democratic\
-GOV10_REP - 2010 Gubernatorial votes, Republican\
-GOV10_OTH - 2010 Gubernatorial votes, Other       \
-SOS_10DEM - 2010 Secretary of State votes, Democratic\
-SOS_10REP - 2010 Secretary of State votes, Republican\
-SOS_10OTH - 2010 Secretary of State votes, Other        \
-AG10_DEM - 2010 Attorney General votes, Democratic\
-AG10_REP - 2010 Attorney General votes, Republican\
-AG1_0OTH - 2010 Attorney General votes, Other       \
-ST10_DEM - 2010 State Treasurer votes, Democratic \
-ST10_REP - 2010 State Treasurer votes, Republican \
-ST10_OTH - 2010 State Treasurer votes, Other          \
-SPI10_DEM - 2010 Superintendent of Public Instruction votes, Democratic     \
-SPI10_REP - 2010 Superintendent of Public Instruction votes, Republican     \
-SPI10_OTH - 2010 Superintendent of Public Instruction votes, Other         \
-USSEN10_DEM - 2010 U.S. Senate votes, Democratic    \
-USSEN10_REP - 2010 U.S. Senate votes, Republican    \
-USSEN10_OTH - 2010 U.S. Senate votes, Other     \
-p_08 - 2008 Presidential, Democratic percent\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 -g_10 - 2010 Gubernatorial, Democratic percent\
-sos_10 - 2010 Secretary of State, Democratic percent\
-ag_10 - 2010 Attorney General, Democratic percent\
-st_10 - 2010 State Treasurer, Democratic percent\
-sp_10 - 2010 Superintendent of Public Instruction, Democratic percent\
-uss_10 - 2010 U.S. Senate, Democratic percent\
-av - Average Democratic Percent\
-NDV - Normal Democratic votes, 2008 and 2010 elections\
-NRV - Normal Republican votes, 2008 and 2010 elections\
-NAME10_Corrupted - This is the Name10 variable from the raw Census VTD file. It contains many incorrect names for Maricopa County. \
}